good evening a 7 News investigation has
revealed a serious braking problem with
Melbourne trains that's putting the
lives of drivers and passengers in
danger in one incident part of a brake
came off and smashed the windscreen of
an oncoming carriage Jacqueline Phil
gate has the details
the driver thought she would be killed
Shannon the glass and she had a big shot
dangers still a faulty brake block
flying off an aging comments train near
Newport just over a week ago it smashed
the windscreen of a train coming the
other way at 110 kilometres an hour they
put it on through the windscreen kill
the rod or could have gone through a
side window killed a passenger 7 News
can reveal a quarter of Melbourne fleet
around 50 trains has serious braking
problems and it's been happening for
three years entire brake blocks are
coming loose while trains are moving and
full of passengers more than a dozen
falling off every week if you do have
issues from time to time whereby bits
and pieces of a train you might get
something may drop off the brakes litter
the sides of tracks across the city
we found these at Laverton when it occur
as a train is immediately pulled from
service but Metro is yet to find a
solution
Metro believes the brake issue is in
part caused because Melbourne train
tracks are just so old it's currently in
the process of installing new concrete
sleepers to replace these old wooden
ones and hopes that will go some way to
fixing the problem but if you do have an
incident you've got to make sure that
passengers and the drivers in particular
are protected that's why they have you
know modern state-of-the-art glass
installed on trains
Peter Metro admits there is no quick fix
for this braking problem probably
Transport Safety Victoria is monitoring
the situation but the minister only
found out about it when we told him
today and no one has been able to
guarantee the safety of commuters or
indeed anybody who passes by a train
track Peter